gr2372/README.md, before:

# README for PacMan

This is the main documentation for a JavaFX version of the game PacMan, from the class IT1901 (1.semester 2023-2024).
It has been made collaboratively with Søren Boucher, Jenny Müller, Amalie Johansen-Wik and Herman Østenby.
It will contain a total of 3 releases (only 1 has currently been made).

# Location of folder for release1

The folder for all code associated with release1 is gr2372\PacMan

# Documentation and User Scenario

[Documentation for release1](/gr2372/docs/release1/)

[User Scenario](/gr2372/docs/brukerhistorier/brukerhistorier.md)

[Jacoco test coverage results](/gr2372/docs/release1/PacMan%20,%20code%20coverage%20-%20JaCoCoReport,%20release1.png)

# Current versions of software

Java version: 17.0.8
Maven version: 3.9.4

# Dependencies required to run application and tests

**JavaFX:**

    javafx-controls
    javafx-fxml

**JUnit testing with jupiter:**

    junit-jupiter-api
    junit-jupiter-engine
    junit-jupiter-params

**Test JavaFX with TextFX:**

    testfx-junit5
    hamcrest
    testfx-core

**Jacoco:**

    org.jacoco.agent

Commit message:

The basic documentation
Update root-README, so it corresponds to release 2 and add instructions
on how to build and run the app.
Create a README for release 2.
Create a README for each of the the different tiers in the
three-tier-architecture.

gr2372/README.md, after:

# README for PacMan

This is the main documentation for a JavaFX version of the game PacMan, from the class IT1901 (1.semester 2023-2024).
It has been made collaboratively with Søren Boucher, Amalie Johansen-Vik, Jenny Müller and Herman Østenby.
It will contain a total of 3 releases (only 2 has currently been made).

# Documentation and User Scenario

[Documentation for release1](/gr2372/docs/release1/)

[Documentation for release2](/gr2372/docs/release2)

[User Scenario](/gr2372/docs/brukerhistorier/brukerhistorier.md)

# How to build and run the application
We are using the project management build tool, Maven.

To build the application, run  `mvn install` from the root-folder (**gr2372**-folder). In addition to building, this command will run all tests and code-quality-checks.

To run the application, run  `mvn javafx:run` from the **ui**-module (>gr2372>**ui**). This can be done by first running `cd gr2372/ui` followed by `mvn javafx:run`. 


# Current versions of software

Java version: 17.0.8

Maven version: 3.9.4

# Dependencies required to run application and tests

**JavaFX:**

    javafx-controls
    javafx-fxml

**JUnit testing with jupiter:**

    junit-jupiter-api
    junit-jupiter-engine
    junit-jupiter-params

**Test JavaFX with TextFX:**

    testfx-junit5
    hamcrest
    testfx-core

**Jacoco:**

    org.jacoco.agent
